README.md, before:

# Awesome Raspberry Pi [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

<a href="https://www.raspberrypi.org"><img src="https://www.raspberrypi.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/raspberry-pi-logo.png" alt="Raspberry Pi Logo" align="left" style="margin-right: 25px" height=150></a>

> The Raspberry Pi is a series of credit card-sized single-board computers developed in the United Kingdom by the Raspberry Pi Foundation to promote the teaching of basic computer science in schools and developing countries. Official Link: [Raspberry Pi Homepage](https://raspberrypi.org)

This list is a collection of tools, projects, images and resources conforming to the [Awesome Manifesto](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome/blob/master/awesome.md)

Contributions *very welcome* but first see [Contributing](#contributing)

## Contents
- [OS Images](#os-images)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Resources](#resources)

## OS Images
- [Raspbian](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) - The official supported Raspberry Pi OS, based on Debian and available as a lite version.
- [NOOBS](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/) - New Out Of the Box Software, an easy OS installer for beginners.
- [Ubuntu MATE](https://ubuntu-mate.org/raspberry-pi/) - Ubuntu distribution for the Raspberry Pi based on MATE desktop. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Snappy Ubuntu Core](https://developer.ubuntu.com/core/get-started/raspberry-pi-2-3) - Official (minimal) Ubuntu distribution for IoT. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Windows 10 IoT Core](https://developer.microsoft.com/nl-nl/windows/iot/Downloads.htm) - Windows 10 distribution for IoT. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [OSMC](https://osmc.tv/) - Open Source Media Centre, based on Kodi.
- [PiNet](http://pinet.org.uk/) - System to manage Raspberry Pi classrooms.
- [Risc OS](https://www.riscosopen.org/content/downloads/raspberry-pi) - Non-Linux OS originated from the group that developed the ARM microprocessor.
- [RuneAudio](http://www.runeaudio.com/) - Free and open source OS that turns embedded hardware into Hi-Fi music players.
- [OpenELEC](http://openelec.tv/) - Open Embedded Linux Entertainment Center, a very lightweight Kodi build.
- [HypriotOS](http://blog.hypriot.com/about/) - Minimal Debian-based operating system, optimized to run Docker.
- [Kali Linux](https://www.offensive-security.com/kali-linux-arm-images/) - Penetration Testing & Ethical Hacking Linux distro for ARM devices.
- [RetroPie](https://retropie.org.uk/) - Retro-gaming on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Alpine Linux](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi) - Security-oriented, lightweight Linux distribution based on musl libc and busybox.
- [Arch Linux ARM](https://archlinuxarm.org/) - Lightweight and flexible Linux distribution that tries to Keep It Simple.
- [Volumio](https://volumio.org/) - Headless audiophile music player, designed to play music with the highest possible fidelity.
- [Recalbox](https://www.recalbox.com) - Drag & drop light-weight retro-gaming and media center on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Lakka](http://lakka.tv) - Retro-gaming on the Raspberry Pi built entirely on RetroArch.
- [RasPlex](http://www.rasplex.com/) - Plex client for the Raspberry Pi.
- [chilipie-kiosk](https://github.com/futurice/chilipie-kiosk) - Image which boots directly into full-screen Chrome, perfect for dashboards and build monitors. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [DietPi](https://github.com/Fourdee/DietPi) - Mimimal image designed to fit on a 2GB SD card, with tons of configurable settings and scripts.
- [CentOS](https://wiki.centos.org/SpecialInterestGroup/AltArch/Arm32/RaspberryPi3) - CentOS on the Raspberry Pi. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Minibian](https://minibianpi.wordpress.com/) - Minimal Raspbian (lighter than Jessie Lite).
- [BerryBoot](http://www.berryterminal.com/doku.php/berryboot) - Bootloader/universal OS installer, with support to VNC and HDMI-CEC.
- [PirateBox](https://piratebox.cc/raspberry_pi:diy) - Anonymous offline mobile file-sharing and communications system.
- [OctoPi](https://octopi.octoprint.org/) - Distribution for 3d printers.
- [Kano OS](http://developers.kano.me/downloads/) - Open-source OS for exploration, creation, and play – free for Raspberry Pi and the new Pi 3.
- [resinOS](https://resinos.io) - open source OS to run Docker containers on embedded devices that's been designed for reliability and proven in production.
- [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi#Preparing_the_SD_card) - Linux Fedora distribution built for the Pi. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [motionEyeOS](https://github.com/ccrisan/motioneyeos/wiki) - Linux distribution that turns a single-board computer into a video surveillance system.
- [NextCloudPi](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/02/13/nextcloud-ready-raspberry-pi-image/) - Nextcloud ready image based on Raspbian. Features Nextcloud 11 running on Raspbian 8, with PHP 7 and HTTP2 enabled Apache server.
- [PiDeck](http://pideck.com/) - Small form factor DVS system allowing you to control digital music files with timecode vinyl.
- [OpenWRT](https://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/raspberry_pi_foundation/raspberry_pi) - OpenWrt is described as a Linux distribution for embedded devices for network management.
- [FreeBSD](https://wiki.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/arm/Raspberry%20Pi) - FreeBSD is an advanced computer operating system used to power modern servers, desktops, and embedded platforms.
- [NetBSD](https://wiki.netbsd.org/ports/evbarm/raspberry_pi/) - NetBSD is a free, fast, secure, and highly portable Unix-like Open Source operating system.
- [Hass.io](https://home-assistant.io/hassio/installation/) - Home automation operating system/application for embedded device, also available standalone.

## Tools
- [PiBakery](http://www.pibakery.org/) - The blocks based, easy to use setup tool for Raspberry Pi.
- [ApplePi Bakery](http://www.tweaking4all.com/software/macosx-software/macosx-apple-pi-baker/) - macOS application to easily install/backup/restore images onto an SD card.
- [Etcher](https://www.etcher.io/) - SD card burner app that is simple for end users, extensible for developers, and works on any platform.
- [PiShrink](https://github.com/Drewsif/PiShrink/) - Bash script that automatically shrinks a pi image that will then resize to the max size of the SD card on boot.
- [OpenVPN-Setup](https://github.com/StarshipEngineer/OpenVPN-Setup) - Shell script to set up Raspberry Pi as an OpenVPN server.
- [pi-gen](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/pi-gen) - Tool used to create the raspberrypi.org Raspbian images. This can be used to create your own custom images with specific packages installed, etc.
- [PiVPN](http://www.pivpn.io/) - Simple, Flexible, and Managable single line install of OpenVPN Server for your Raspberry Pi.
- [Network Presence Detector](https://github.com/initialstate/pi-sensor-free-presence-detector/wiki) - Setup a Pi Zero to scan for devices on a WiFi network and use that to determine who is "home".
- [Resin Bridge](https://github.com/resin-io-playground/resin-bridge) - Simple application/repo to bridge a Raspberry Pi's wlan0 interface to devices plugged into it over ethernet (eth0).
- [WiFi config generator](https://steveedson.co.uk/tools/wpa/) - Simple tool to generate wpa_supplicant.conf files with wifi settings
- [Raspbian QEMU with network](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/02/06/raspbian-on-qemu-with-network-access/) - Simple tool to launch QEMU on Raspbian with the required modifications on the system and kernel. Automatic network access. Handy to create images in your PC.
- [RaspAP-webgui](https://github.com/billz/raspap-webgui) - A simple, responsive web interface to control wifi, hostapd and related services on the Raspberry Pi.
- [HealthyPi](https://github.com/Protocentral/HealthyPi) - HAT which includes vital health monitoring like ECG, respiration, pulse oximetry and optional blood pressure & body temperature sensing. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [PoisonTap](https://github.com/samyk/poisontap) - Exploits locked/password protected computers over USB, drops persistent WebSocket-based backdoor, exposes internal router, and siphons cookies using Raspberry Pi Zero & Node.js. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)

## Projects
- [Mini OONTZ](https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/downloads/pdf/mini-oontz-3d-printed-midi-controller.pdf) - 3D printed mini MIDI controller.
- [Power Sniffing Strip](https://gnurds.com/index.php/2012/10/02/raspberry-pi-power-strip/) - Enclosure in a power strip, sniffing network data.
- [Raspberry Pi Erlang Cluster](https://medium.com/@pieterjan_m/erlang-pi2-arm-cluster-vs-xeon-vm-40871d35d356#.bpao66cm8) - Erlang cluster on a Raspberry Pi 2.
- [NTP driven Nixie Clock](http://www.mjoldfield.com/atelier/2012/08/ntp-nixie.html) - Nixie Tube Clock powered by a Raspberry Pi.
- [40-node Raspberry Pi Cluster](http://hackaday.com/2014/02/17/40-node-raspi-cluster/) - Cluster aimed to be under the size of full tower desktop.
- [Raspberry PI Hadoop Cluster](http://www.widriksson.com/raspberry-pi-hadoop-cluster/) - Big Data cluster running on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Multi-Datacenter Cassandra on 32 Raspberry Pi’s](http://www.datastax.com/dev/blog/32-node-raspberry-pi-cassandra-cluster) - Showcase for the always on, fault tolerant nature of Cassandra using a Raspberry Pi cluster board.
- [Building a Ceph Cluster on Raspberry Pi](http://bryanapperson.com/blog/the-definitive-guide-ceph-cluster-on-raspberry-pi/) - Highly redundant and low power usage RADOS home storage solution.
- [Smart Mirror](https://github.com/evancohen/smart-mirror) - Voice controlled smart mirror with IoT integration. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Magic Mirror](http://magicmirror.builders) - The original open source modular smart mirror platform. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Door bot](https://blog.haschek.at/post/f31aa) - Door bot that senses when a door is opened and sends you chat messages.
- [Chromebook Charger Kiosk](https://www.reddit.com/r/raspberry_pi/comments/53nj1z/chromebook_charger_kiosk_last_minute_charge_for/) - Timed charging station for students using Chromebooks at school.
- [Jasper](https://jasperproject.github.io/) - Flexible open source personal assistant.
- [Lightberry](https://lightberry.eu) - Led lighting solution dedicated for raspberry pi and your TV.
- [SecPi](https://github.com/SecPi/SecPi) - Raspberry Pi based home alarm system.
- [PiClock](https://github.com/n0bel/PiClock) - Fancy Clock built around a monitor and a Raspberry Pi.
- [Garage Door Opener](https://github.com/benjefferies/gogo-garage-opener) - Garage door opener using the [Garage Opener](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ionicframework.gogogarageopenerui416115&hl=en) app to control garage door.
- [Movel](https://github.com/stevelacy/movel) - Raspberry Pi car computer.
- [PiFanTuner](https://github.com/winkidney/PIFanTuner) - CPU-fan-tuner daemon, just enables your fan as necessary. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 3](/media/badges/rpi-3.png)
- [SkyJack](https://samy.pl/skyjack/) - Take over and allow full control over any Parrot AR Drone within wireless distance.
- [Nerves Project](https://github.com/nerves-project) - Craft and deploy bulletproof embedded software in Elixir.
- [Wordpress using Docker](https://github.com/rothgar/rpi-wordpress) - Run a Wordpress site in containers with dynamic DNS.
- [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/) - Black hole for internet ads.
- [Planning lunch with a Slackbot on resin.io](https://resin.io/blog/planning-lunch-with-a-slackbot-on-resin-io/) - Node.js Slackbot (lunchbot), hosted on Resin.
- [Sonus](https://github.com/evancohen/sonus) - Node.js voice control for your Pi (and everything else) with customizable offline hotword detection.
- [Sonic Pi](https://github.com/samaaron/sonic-pi) - The Live Coding Music Synth for Everyone.
- [Alexa AVS](https://github.com/alexa/alexa-avs-sample-app/wiki/Raspberry-Pi) - Demonstration on using Alexa Voice Service with a Java client and Node.js server.
- [Pi4j Project](http://pi4j.com) - Java I/O library the Raspberry Pi.
- [Harry Potter and the real life Daily Prophet](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/harry-potter-and-the-real-life-daily-prophet/) - Display mimicking the Daily Prophet from Harry Potter using a 7" Raspberry Pi display.
- [PiScan](http://denis.papathanasiou.org/posts/2015.05.30.post.html) - Makeshift Amazon Dash orders using a Raspberry PI + EAN scanner.
- [PiE-Ink](http://www.htxt.co.za/2017/02/07/pie-ink-is-a-raspberry-pi-name-tag-that-uses-an-e-ink-display/) - E-ink nametag display running on a Pi Zero. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [Whispering Mirror](http://whisperingwallproject.com/whisperingmirror/) - Interactive soundart installation using the Hifiberry DAC.
- [clockOS](https://github.com/iGerli/clockOS) - simple smart desktop clock using a Raspberry Pi display.
- [Zelda Home Automation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/zelda-home-automation/) - Home automation based on sound recognition from notes played on an ocarina.
- [Looper/synth/drum thing](https://github.com/otem/Raspberry-Pi-Looper-synth-drum-thing) - Sequencer/Drumpad, like Native Instruments' Maschine for the Pi.
- [Waves](https://github.com/euniceylee/waves) - Transforming the transience of the spoken word into something concrete and physical through a microphone, waveform and thermal printer.
- [DIY USB Rubber Ducky](https://hackaday.io/project/17598-diy-usb-rubber-ducky) - Raspberry Pi Zero Rubber Ducky recognized as a USB HID by just about anything with a USB port, thus allowing you to run custom scripts as if it were a keyboard. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)

## Resources
### Articles
- [Raspberry Pi and why do I need one?](https://www.liquidlight.co.uk/blog/article/raspberry-pi-what-is-it-and-why-do-i-need-one/) - Intro into the Raspberry Pi and what can be done with it.
- [10 Ways To Power](https://raspberrypi.about.com/od/Power/tp/10-Ways-to-Power-your-Raspberry-Pi.htm) - Information about different & correct ways to power the pi.
- [The Ultimate Raspberry Pi Security Guide](http://www.nhatqbui.com/assets/TheUltimateRaspberryPiSecurityGuide.pdf) - Extensive guide on security best practices for the Pi ie. exposed to the internet.

### Tutorials
- [Bridging Wifi to the Raspberry Pi over Ethernet](https://blog.thibmaekelbergh.be/2015/02/16/bridging-wifi-to-the-raspberry-pi-over-ethernet.html) - Set up tethered networking between macOS & Raspberry Pi.
- [Raspberry Pi login with SSH keys](https://blog.thibmaekelbergh.be/2015/05/07/raspberry-pi-login-with-ssh-keys.html) - Password-less login for ssh sessions on the Raspberry Pi.
- [How to setup a secure VPN server on Raspberry Pi or DigitalOcean](http://blog.hsp.dk/how-to-setup-vpn-server-on-raspberry-pi-or-digitalocean/) - Simple, secure and detailed guide to setup VPN on your Raspberry Pi.
- [Controlling Spotify with Slack and a Raspberry Pi](https://thesocietea.org/2016/03/controlling-spotify-with-slack-and-a-raspberry-pi/) - Node.js project to control Spotify & Slack with libspotify.
- [Moonlight](https://github.com/irtimmer/moonlight-embedded) - Nvidia GameStream implementation to stream your full collection of Steam games from desktop to the Raspberry Pi.
- [Raspberry Pi Zero: Programming over USB](http://blog.gbaman.info/?p=791) - Guide to boot and access a Raspberry Pi Zero over a USB cable without need of an ethernet/wifi connection, keyboard or screen. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [Use a Raspberry Pi with multiple WiFi networks](https://www.mikestreety.co.uk/blog/use-a-raspberry-pi-with-multiple-wifi-networks) - Tutorial on using a Raspberry Pi with multiple networks.
- [Raspberry Pi Media Server Guides](http://www.htpcguides.com/category/raspberry-pi/) - Media Server and NAS tutorials from HTPC Guides.
- [Turn the Raspberry Pi Zero into a mini dongle computer](http://n-o-d-e.net/post/150780207431/turn-the-raspberry-pi-zero-into-a-mini-dongle) - Setup a pi0 to be able to ssh & vnc over USB. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [How To Make a Raspberry Pi Turn on a Lamp with iBeacon™ Technology](http://developer.radiusnetworks.com/2014/04/27/how-to-make-a-raspberry-pi-turn-on-a-lamp-with-an-ibeacon.html) - Good beginners-guide to working with Beacon technology.
- [Build a $35 Time Capsule](https://raymii.org/s/articles/Build_a_35_dollar_Time_Capsule_-_Raspberry_Pi_Time_Machine.html) - Time Machine Backup Server.
- [Raspberry Pi Game Console](https://lifehacker.com/how-to-turn-your-raspberry-pi-into-a-retro-game-console-498561192) - How to Build a Raspberry Pi Retro Game Console for $35.
- [Sending and Visualizing Thermal Data](https://www.griddb.net/en/blog/raspberry-pi-tutorial-sending-thermal-data-to-griddb-via-the-kairosdb-connector/) - Send thermal data to an easily-queryable database and visualize the results. 
- [Docker Swarm with LetsEncrypt](https://aaron.haurwitz.com/#!/posts/raspberry-pi-docker-swarm-with-lets-encrypt) - Clear guidelines on how to set up a cluster with Docker, distributing services with Docker Compose and signing valid SSL certs with Letsencrypt.
- [DIY Neural Network](http://hackaday.com/2017/06/14/diy-raspberry-neural-network-sees-all-recognizes-some/) - Uses image recognition and Google’s Inception to recognize specific objects.

## Community
- [Official Forum](https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/)
- [Official Blog](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/)
- [Raspberry Pi Jam — Official conferences](https://www.raspberrypi.org/jam/)
- [`@Raspberry_Pi` on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Raspberry_Pi)
- [`#raspberrypi` on Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23raspberrypi)
- [StackExchange](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/)
- [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/raspberry_pi)
- [Reddit Projects](https://www.reddit.com/r/RASPBERRY_PI_PROJECTS)
- [eLinux Hub](http://elinux.org/RPi_Hub)

### Contributing
Contribution guidelines can be found [here](/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### License
[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

Commit message:

Add kubernetes-on-ARM into project category.
Add a cool project which can get your ARM device up and running Kubernetes in less than ten minutes into the project category.

README.md, after:

# Awesome Raspberry Pi [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

<a href="https://www.raspberrypi.org"><img src="https://www.raspberrypi.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/raspberry-pi-logo.png" alt="Raspberry Pi Logo" align="left" style="margin-right: 25px" height=150></a>

> The Raspberry Pi is a series of credit card-sized single-board computers developed in the United Kingdom by the Raspberry Pi Foundation to promote the teaching of basic computer science in schools and developing countries. Official Link: [Raspberry Pi Homepage](https://raspberrypi.org)

This list is a collection of tools, projects, images and resources conforming to the [Awesome Manifesto](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome/blob/master/awesome.md)

Contributions *very welcome* but first see [Contributing](#contributing)

## Contents
- [OS Images](#os-images)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Resources](#resources)

## OS Images
- [Raspbian](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) - The official supported Raspberry Pi OS, based on Debian and available as a lite version.
- [NOOBS](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/) - New Out Of the Box Software, an easy OS installer for beginners.
- [Ubuntu MATE](https://ubuntu-mate.org/raspberry-pi/) - Ubuntu distribution for the Raspberry Pi based on MATE desktop. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Snappy Ubuntu Core](https://developer.ubuntu.com/core/get-started/raspberry-pi-2-3) - Official (minimal) Ubuntu distribution for IoT. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Windows 10 IoT Core](https://developer.microsoft.com/nl-nl/windows/iot/Downloads.htm) - Windows 10 distribution for IoT. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [OSMC](https://osmc.tv/) - Open Source Media Centre, based on Kodi.
- [PiNet](http://pinet.org.uk/) - System to manage Raspberry Pi classrooms.
- [Risc OS](https://www.riscosopen.org/content/downloads/raspberry-pi) - Non-Linux OS originated from the group that developed the ARM microprocessor.
- [RuneAudio](http://www.runeaudio.com/) - Free and open source OS that turns embedded hardware into Hi-Fi music players.
- [OpenELEC](http://openelec.tv/) - Open Embedded Linux Entertainment Center, a very lightweight Kodi build.
- [HypriotOS](http://blog.hypriot.com/about/) - Minimal Debian-based operating system, optimized to run Docker.
- [Kali Linux](https://www.offensive-security.com/kali-linux-arm-images/) - Penetration Testing & Ethical Hacking Linux distro for ARM devices.
- [RetroPie](https://retropie.org.uk/) - Retro-gaming on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Alpine Linux](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi) - Security-oriented, lightweight Linux distribution based on musl libc and busybox.
- [Arch Linux ARM](https://archlinuxarm.org/) - Lightweight and flexible Linux distribution that tries to Keep It Simple.
- [Volumio](https://volumio.org/) - Headless audiophile music player, designed to play music with the highest possible fidelity.
- [Recalbox](https://www.recalbox.com) - Drag & drop light-weight retro-gaming and media center on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Lakka](http://lakka.tv) - Retro-gaming on the Raspberry Pi built entirely on RetroArch.
- [RasPlex](http://www.rasplex.com/) - Plex client for the Raspberry Pi.
- [chilipie-kiosk](https://github.com/futurice/chilipie-kiosk) - Image which boots directly into full-screen Chrome, perfect for dashboards and build monitors. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [DietPi](https://github.com/Fourdee/DietPi) - Mimimal image designed to fit on a 2GB SD card, with tons of configurable settings and scripts.
- [CentOS](https://wiki.centos.org/SpecialInterestGroup/AltArch/Arm32/RaspberryPi3) - CentOS on the Raspberry Pi. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Minibian](https://minibianpi.wordpress.com/) - Minimal Raspbian (lighter than Jessie Lite).
- [BerryBoot](http://www.berryterminal.com/doku.php/berryboot) - Bootloader/universal OS installer, with support to VNC and HDMI-CEC.
- [PirateBox](https://piratebox.cc/raspberry_pi:diy) - Anonymous offline mobile file-sharing and communications system.
- [OctoPi](https://octopi.octoprint.org/) - Distribution for 3d printers.
- [Kano OS](http://developers.kano.me/downloads/) - Open-source OS for exploration, creation, and play – free for Raspberry Pi and the new Pi 3.
- [resinOS](https://resinos.io) - open source OS to run Docker containers on embedded devices that's been designed for reliability and proven in production.
- [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi#Preparing_the_SD_card) - Linux Fedora distribution built for the Pi. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [motionEyeOS](https://github.com/ccrisan/motioneyeos/wiki) - Linux distribution that turns a single-board computer into a video surveillance system.
- [NextCloudPi](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/02/13/nextcloud-ready-raspberry-pi-image/) - Nextcloud ready image based on Raspbian. Features Nextcloud 11 running on Raspbian 8, with PHP 7 and HTTP2 enabled Apache server.
- [PiDeck](http://pideck.com/) - Small form factor DVS system allowing you to control digital music files with timecode vinyl.
- [OpenWRT](https://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/raspberry_pi_foundation/raspberry_pi) - OpenWrt is described as a Linux distribution for embedded devices for network management.
- [FreeBSD](https://wiki.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/arm/Raspberry%20Pi) - FreeBSD is an advanced computer operating system used to power modern servers, desktops, and embedded platforms.
- [NetBSD](https://wiki.netbsd.org/ports/evbarm/raspberry_pi/) - NetBSD is a free, fast, secure, and highly portable Unix-like Open Source operating system.
- [Hass.io](https://home-assistant.io/hassio/installation/) - Home automation operating system/application for embedded device, also available standalone.

## Tools
- [PiBakery](http://www.pibakery.org/) - The blocks based, easy to use setup tool for Raspberry Pi.
- [ApplePi Bakery](http://www.tweaking4all.com/software/macosx-software/macosx-apple-pi-baker/) - macOS application to easily install/backup/restore images onto an SD card.
- [Etcher](https://www.etcher.io/) - SD card burner app that is simple for end users, extensible for developers, and works on any platform.
- [PiShrink](https://github.com/Drewsif/PiShrink/) - Bash script that automatically shrinks a pi image that will then resize to the max size of the SD card on boot.
- [OpenVPN-Setup](https://github.com/StarshipEngineer/OpenVPN-Setup) - Shell script to set up Raspberry Pi as an OpenVPN server.
- [pi-gen](https://github.com/RPi-Distro/pi-gen) - Tool used to create the raspberrypi.org Raspbian images. This can be used to create your own custom images with specific packages installed, etc.
- [PiVPN](http://www.pivpn.io/) - Simple, Flexible, and Managable single line install of OpenVPN Server for your Raspberry Pi.
- [Network Presence Detector](https://github.com/initialstate/pi-sensor-free-presence-detector/wiki) - Setup a Pi Zero to scan for devices on a WiFi network and use that to determine who is "home".
- [Resin Bridge](https://github.com/resin-io-playground/resin-bridge) - Simple application/repo to bridge a Raspberry Pi's wlan0 interface to devices plugged into it over ethernet (eth0).
- [WiFi config generator](https://steveedson.co.uk/tools/wpa/) - Simple tool to generate wpa_supplicant.conf files with wifi settings
- [Raspbian QEMU with network](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/02/06/raspbian-on-qemu-with-network-access/) - Simple tool to launch QEMU on Raspbian with the required modifications on the system and kernel. Automatic network access. Handy to create images in your PC.
- [RaspAP-webgui](https://github.com/billz/raspap-webgui) - A simple, responsive web interface to control wifi, hostapd and related services on the Raspberry Pi.
- [HealthyPi](https://github.com/Protocentral/HealthyPi) - HAT which includes vital health monitoring like ECG, respiration, pulse oximetry and optional blood pressure & body temperature sensing. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [PoisonTap](https://github.com/samyk/poisontap) - Exploits locked/password protected computers over USB, drops persistent WebSocket-based backdoor, exposes internal router, and siphons cookies using Raspberry Pi Zero & Node.js. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)

## Projects
- [Mini OONTZ](https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/downloads/pdf/mini-oontz-3d-printed-midi-controller.pdf) - 3D printed mini MIDI controller.
- [Power Sniffing Strip](https://gnurds.com/index.php/2012/10/02/raspberry-pi-power-strip/) - Enclosure in a power strip, sniffing network data.
- [Raspberry Pi Erlang Cluster](https://medium.com/@pieterjan_m/erlang-pi2-arm-cluster-vs-xeon-vm-40871d35d356#.bpao66cm8) - Erlang cluster on a Raspberry Pi 2.
- [NTP driven Nixie Clock](http://www.mjoldfield.com/atelier/2012/08/ntp-nixie.html) - Nixie Tube Clock powered by a Raspberry Pi.
- [40-node Raspberry Pi Cluster](http://hackaday.com/2014/02/17/40-node-raspi-cluster/) - Cluster aimed to be under the size of full tower desktop.
- [Raspberry PI Hadoop Cluster](http://www.widriksson.com/raspberry-pi-hadoop-cluster/) - Big Data cluster running on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Multi-Datacenter Cassandra on 32 Raspberry Pi’s](http://www.datastax.com/dev/blog/32-node-raspberry-pi-cassandra-cluster) - Showcase for the always on, fault tolerant nature of Cassandra using a Raspberry Pi cluster board.
- [Building a Ceph Cluster on Raspberry Pi](http://bryanapperson.com/blog/the-definitive-guide-ceph-cluster-on-raspberry-pi/) - Highly redundant and low power usage RADOS home storage solution.
- [Smart Mirror](https://github.com/evancohen/smart-mirror) - Voice controlled smart mirror with IoT integration. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Magic Mirror](http://magicmirror.builders) - The original open source modular smart mirror platform. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 2+](/media/badges/rpi-2+.png)
- [Door bot](https://blog.haschek.at/post/f31aa) - Door bot that senses when a door is opened and sends you chat messages.
- [Chromebook Charger Kiosk](https://www.reddit.com/r/raspberry_pi/comments/53nj1z/chromebook_charger_kiosk_last_minute_charge_for/) - Timed charging station for students using Chromebooks at school.
- [Jasper](https://jasperproject.github.io/) - Flexible open source personal assistant.
- [Lightberry](https://lightberry.eu) - Led lighting solution dedicated for raspberry pi and your TV.
- [SecPi](https://github.com/SecPi/SecPi) - Raspberry Pi based home alarm system.
- [PiClock](https://github.com/n0bel/PiClock) - Fancy Clock built around a monitor and a Raspberry Pi.
- [Garage Door Opener](https://github.com/benjefferies/gogo-garage-opener) - Garage door opener using the [Garage Opener](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ionicframework.gogogarageopenerui416115&hl=en) app to control garage door.
- [Movel](https://github.com/stevelacy/movel) - Raspberry Pi car computer.
- [PiFanTuner](https://github.com/winkidney/PIFanTuner) - CPU-fan-tuner daemon, just enables your fan as necessary. ![Supports Raspberry Pi 3](/media/badges/rpi-3.png)
- [SkyJack](https://samy.pl/skyjack/) - Take over and allow full control over any Parrot AR Drone within wireless distance.
- [Nerves Project](https://github.com/nerves-project) - Craft and deploy bulletproof embedded software in Elixir.
- [Wordpress using Docker](https://github.com/rothgar/rpi-wordpress) - Run a Wordpress site in containers with dynamic DNS.
- [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/) - Black hole for internet ads.
- [Planning lunch with a Slackbot on resin.io](https://resin.io/blog/planning-lunch-with-a-slackbot-on-resin-io/) - Node.js Slackbot (lunchbot), hosted on Resin.
- [Sonus](https://github.com/evancohen/sonus) - Node.js voice control for your Pi (and everything else) with customizable offline hotword detection.
- [Sonic Pi](https://github.com/samaaron/sonic-pi) - The Live Coding Music Synth for Everyone.
- [Alexa AVS](https://github.com/alexa/alexa-avs-sample-app/wiki/Raspberry-Pi) - Demonstration on using Alexa Voice Service with a Java client and Node.js server.
- [Pi4j Project](http://pi4j.com) - Java I/O library the Raspberry Pi.
- [Harry Potter and the real life Daily Prophet](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/harry-potter-and-the-real-life-daily-prophet/) - Display mimicking the Daily Prophet from Harry Potter using a 7" Raspberry Pi display.
- [PiScan](http://denis.papathanasiou.org/posts/2015.05.30.post.html) - Makeshift Amazon Dash orders using a Raspberry PI + EAN scanner.
- [PiE-Ink](http://www.htxt.co.za/2017/02/07/pie-ink-is-a-raspberry-pi-name-tag-that-uses-an-e-ink-display/) - E-ink nametag display running on a Pi Zero. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [Whispering Mirror](http://whisperingwallproject.com/whisperingmirror/) - Interactive soundart installation using the Hifiberry DAC.
- [clockOS](https://github.com/iGerli/clockOS) - simple smart desktop clock using a Raspberry Pi display.
- [Zelda Home Automation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/zelda-home-automation/) - Home automation based on sound recognition from notes played on an ocarina.
- [Looper/synth/drum thing](https://github.com/otem/Raspberry-Pi-Looper-synth-drum-thing) - Sequencer/Drumpad, like Native Instruments' Maschine for the Pi.
- [Waves](https://github.com/euniceylee/waves) - Transforming the transience of the spoken word into something concrete and physical through a microphone, waveform and thermal printer.
- [DIY USB Rubber Ducky](https://hackaday.io/project/17598-diy-usb-rubber-ducky) - Raspberry Pi Zero Rubber Ducky recognized as a USB HID by just about anything with a USB port, thus allowing you to run custom scripts as if it were a keyboard. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [Kubernetes on ARM](https://github.com/luxas/kubernetes-on-arm) - Get your ARM device up and running Kubernetes in less than ten minutes.

## Resources
### Articles
- [Raspberry Pi and why do I need one?](https://www.liquidlight.co.uk/blog/article/raspberry-pi-what-is-it-and-why-do-i-need-one/) - Intro into the Raspberry Pi and what can be done with it.
- [10 Ways To Power](https://raspberrypi.about.com/od/Power/tp/10-Ways-to-Power-your-Raspberry-Pi.htm) - Information about different & correct ways to power the pi.
- [The Ultimate Raspberry Pi Security Guide](http://www.nhatqbui.com/assets/TheUltimateRaspberryPiSecurityGuide.pdf) - Extensive guide on security best practices for the Pi ie. exposed to the internet.


### Tutorials
- [Bridging Wifi to the Raspberry Pi over Ethernet](https://blog.thibmaekelbergh.be/2015/02/16/bridging-wifi-to-the-raspberry-pi-over-ethernet.html) - Set up tethered networking between macOS & Raspberry Pi.
- [Raspberry Pi login with SSH keys](https://blog.thibmaekelbergh.be/2015/05/07/raspberry-pi-login-with-ssh-keys.html) - Password-less login for ssh sessions on the Raspberry Pi.
- [How to setup a secure VPN server on Raspberry Pi or DigitalOcean](http://blog.hsp.dk/how-to-setup-vpn-server-on-raspberry-pi-or-digitalocean/) - Simple, secure and detailed guide to setup VPN on your Raspberry Pi.
- [Controlling Spotify with Slack and a Raspberry Pi](https://thesocietea.org/2016/03/controlling-spotify-with-slack-and-a-raspberry-pi/) - Node.js project to control Spotify & Slack with libspotify.
- [Moonlight](https://github.com/irtimmer/moonlight-embedded) - Nvidia GameStream implementation to stream your full collection of Steam games from desktop to the Raspberry Pi.
- [Raspberry Pi Zero: Programming over USB](http://blog.gbaman.info/?p=791) - Guide to boot and access a Raspberry Pi Zero over a USB cable without need of an ethernet/wifi connection, keyboard or screen. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [Use a Raspberry Pi with multiple WiFi networks](https://www.mikestreety.co.uk/blog/use-a-raspberry-pi-with-multiple-wifi-networks) - Tutorial on using a Raspberry Pi with multiple networks.
- [Raspberry Pi Media Server Guides](http://www.htpcguides.com/category/raspberry-pi/) - Media Server and NAS tutorials from HTPC Guides.
- [Turn the Raspberry Pi Zero into a mini dongle computer](http://n-o-d-e.net/post/150780207431/turn-the-raspberry-pi-zero-into-a-mini-dongle) - Setup a pi0 to be able to ssh & vnc over USB. ![Supports Raspberry Pi Zero](/media/badges/rpi-0.png)
- [How To Make a Raspberry Pi Turn on a Lamp with iBeacon™ Technology](http://developer.radiusnetworks.com/2014/04/27/how-to-make-a-raspberry-pi-turn-on-a-lamp-with-an-ibeacon.html) - Good beginners-guide to working with Beacon technology.
- [Build a $35 Time Capsule](https://raymii.org/s/articles/Build_a_35_dollar_Time_Capsule_-_Raspberry_Pi_Time_Machine.html) - Time Machine Backup Server.
- [Raspberry Pi Game Console](https://lifehacker.com/how-to-turn-your-raspberry-pi-into-a-retro-game-console-498561192) - How to Build a Raspberry Pi Retro Game Console for $35.
- [Sending and Visualizing Thermal Data](https://www.griddb.net/en/blog/raspberry-pi-tutorial-sending-thermal-data-to-griddb-via-the-kairosdb-connector/) - Send thermal data to an easily-queryable database and visualize the results. 
- [Docker Swarm with LetsEncrypt](https://aaron.haurwitz.com/#!/posts/raspberry-pi-docker-swarm-with-lets-encrypt) - Clear guidelines on how to set up a cluster with Docker, distributing services with Docker Compose and signing valid SSL certs with Letsencrypt.
- [DIY Neural Network](http://hackaday.com/2017/06/14/diy-raspberry-neural-network-sees-all-recognizes-some/) - Uses image recognition and Google’s Inception to recognize specific objects.

## Community
- [Official Forum](https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/)
- [Official Blog](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/)
- [Raspberry Pi Jam — Official conferences](https://www.raspberrypi.org/jam/)
- [`@Raspberry_Pi` on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Raspberry_Pi)
- [`#raspberrypi` on Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23raspberrypi)
- [StackExchange](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/)
- [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/raspberry_pi)
- [Reddit Projects](https://www.reddit.com/r/RASPBERRY_PI_PROJECTS)
- [eLinux Hub](http://elinux.org/RPi_Hub)

### Contributing
Contribution guidelines can be found [here](/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### License
[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
